---
layout: post
title: Course Reflection
---
At the beginning of the semester, I wrote, "some of the major duties of data scientists including cleaning data, transforming data, visualizing data, modeling data, and communicating findings." I also included that data scientiests "have a balance of expertise in their field, programming, and math/statistics." After going through this course, my thoughts haven't changed a ton about these core beliefs of what a data scientist is/does. Rather, they have been confirmed from the different things we've learned over the past couple of months. We went through every single step noted above, from cleaning data to communicating findings. In my initial post I also wrote about the importance of communicating findings, but I feel like I didn't even realize at that time just how important that is. Throughout the semester, we've learned so many tools for communicating results (GitHub, RMarkdown with different output types, Shiny). Each of these tools has a specific purpose and is intended for a different audience. That is definitely something that has changed for me in my view of what data scientists do. I realize even more how important it is to find the right way to communicate results to your audience.

I loved R coming into this course, and I leave this course continuing to love all of the uses it has. I think the language is extremely practical, and I really enjoy all of the different applications it has. To me, it's cool to be able to know one language but do everything from coding a script to creating documentation of my results. I will definitely continue to use R moving forward, and I think I will use RMarkdown more than I previously did. I appreciated the organization that RMarkdown provided, even just for myself when writing code. I will try to do more work with RMarkdown in the future.

In practice, I hope to use Shiny more for communicating results. Prior to this course, I didn't have a ton of experience with Shiny. I had done a little bit of work with Shiny for projects with the NC State baseball team, but I always felt like I was editing the scripts blindly. Now, I think I have a better understanding of how Shiny works, which will helps me produce better projects in the future. I am looking forward to using Shiny in my work with 321 Coffee to create a place to track some of our key metrics. 

Overall, I really enjoyed my time in this course. I leave feeling like I learned a lot about data science and the tools that can help me moving forward.
