---
layout: post
title: R vs. Other Programming Languages
---
I have previous coding experience using Python and SAS. While my experience with both is a little more limited than my experience with R, I definitely enjoy using R the most. I feel like R and Python share a lot of similarities. Syntax is fairly similar, and both use packages to help make coding easier. In my experience with Python, I haven't used packages a ton, so I am not able to say how they compare to the packages in R. One thing that I liked about R that Python didn't have was RStudio. I really liked that R already had a platform that could be used to write and run code in one place. Python has this, but in my experience, it is only ever with external programs. 

On the other hand, SAS and R are more different. I always feel like code in SAS is not as efficient as code in R. What I can do in one line of code in R takes multiple in SAS. Personally, I don't really like having to use all of the proc statements in SAS. I also prefer that in R you seperate values with a comma, but SAS does not, which makes it difficult to read. I like that SAS is typically done in an environment similar to RStudio. 

Since R is the language I know best and the language I learned first, I wouldn't say there is much I miss about other languages when using R. However, my experience with SAS and Python is very limited, so it is possible that I will find things as I use them more. Because R is my primary programming language, I find myself comparing other languages to it as the gold standard. I understand that potential limitations of R exist, especially with very large data, but I am yet to run into those issues. 

One of the things I like most about R is that it is fairly easy to learn. With R being an open-source program, there are a lot of great publications out there that can help people, like me, learn the language. In my experience, I have found StackOverflow to be a great resource for learning R. People are very willing to help each other on the forum, and there is a lot of great information that has already been shared. I've also used Kaggle to learn R. Kaggle has some learning opportunities where it will provide a data set for you to analyze. You can then follow the work that others are doing in order to learn new techniques and skills. I love the community that R has developed. The people are always willing to help each other. 
